---
title: Introduction
date: 2024-05-26
author: Matt Gibney
tags: [prototyping, introduction]
---

## Introductions

Hello,

This is yet another side project that I'm starting. I'm not sure how far i'll
progress with this one but I'm going to give it a go. I'm going to be writing
a server for the game Habbo Hotel. More specifically, for V1 of Habbo Hotel. The
game was released in 2000 in Finland. The UK beta was released at the beginning
of 2001. I started plating myself around 2003, so I wasn't quite at the start
but I was still there pretty early. This project isn't meant to restore the game
to a playable state that others can joig and play. It's more of a learning
experience for me. I want to learn more about how the game works and how it was
built.

## Shockwave

It's important to cover this right at the beginning. This project will NEVER be
publically playable. The game was built in Macromedia Shockwave. This is a
technology that is no longer supported by modern browsers. It's un-secure and
it's not something that I want to be distributing to people. I'm not going to be
releasing the client files for this project. I'm only going to be working on the
server side of things.

Shockwave was a great technology for it's time. It's just not something that we
can use today. Installing the Shockwave player is a security risk and it's not
something that I want to be promoting. It's even more difficult for people like
me that are using Apple Silicon. There is no Shockwave player for Apple Silicon
so I have to virtualise old software to be able to run it. This isn't something
that I can reasonably expect others to do.

## The Plan

My main goal is to restore as much functionality to the game as I possibly can.
I want to be able to log in, walk around, chat, trade, and do all of the basic
things that you could do in the game. Along the way I want to learn more about
how the game was built and how it works. I will be documenting what I find in
both the code as well as blog posts on this site.

Part of the reason I want to do this is to improve my communication skills. I
need to get better at longer-form writing and I think that this is a good way to
do it. I'm not sure how often I'll be posting but I honestly expect this project
to be done over years rather than months. I'm not going to be working on this
full time. I have a full time job and other projects that I'm working on. This
is just something that I want to do in my spare time.

---

Thanks for reading. I hope you enjoy the journey with me. I'm not sure where
this project will take me but I'm excited to find out. If you have any questions
or comments then please feel free to reach out to me. I'm always happy to chat
about my projects.

- Matt
